# Architectural Decision Record Template

1. **Title**: Unification Benchmark and Testing
2. **Context**:
    We have two command line utilities:
    1. `benchmark.py` that:
        - creates always two samples
        - can derive one program from the other (e.g. NOT append)
        - has fake executors (e.g. uniform bitstring)
    2. `cross_platform_testing.py` that:
        - compares n-platform compiler at the same time
        - executes the same program multiple times (e.g. 5 times)
        - compares all the possible execution pairs: 5 * 5 = 25 combinations

    **Option A**:
    Keep only the `cross_platform_testing.py` with a flag `--benchmark` when a comparison needs to be run as a benchmark.

    Pros:
    - retain more reliable comparisons of `cross_platform_testing.py`
    - less code to maintain

    Cons:
    - need to handle special generation strategies (e.g. NOT append and bitstrings) differently
    - no reuse of the Analyzer utility

    What to do:
    - use a flag `--benchmark` when a comparison needs to be run as a benchmark.
    - support generation strategies that create two QASM folders in `original_programs` (e.g. NOT append and bitstrings).
    - update `generate_and_run_programs` function so that two generation strategies are used and the conversion (with qconvert) outputs in two different folders.
    - the analyzer should take a folder with `ground_truth`, `predictions` and `original_programs` as input.

    **Option B**:
    Keep both `benchmark.py` and `cross_platform_testing.py`, use them on the same file, they will use the same configuration file.

    Pros:
    - reuse of code from `benchmark.py`

    Cons:
    - introduce the generation with Qconvert as a new strategy. Need to store the intermediate py files somewhere.
    - make QconvertCircuit more general and pass the target platform to it when needed.
    - not homogeneous folder structure for the two. Benchmark will have two QASM per circuit ID, whereas cross_platform_testing will have one QASM per circuit ID.
        - benchmark: will have `programs/sample_a` and `programs/sample_b` (containing two possibly different QASM programs).
        - cross_platform_testing: will have `programs/cirq` and `programs/qiskit` containing the PY programs, and `original_programs` (containing the QASM program)

    What to do:
    We go for option B so that we can reuse existing code and we have an opportunity to improve the QconvertCircuit code.
    In practice we will:
    - prefix an underscore to all the benchmark name to make clear the distinction visually in the folder structure
    - create a more general `benchmarks_configurations` which adds the field `target_platform` to the `sample_a` and `sample_b` sections, together with the flag to override the .
    - make `QconvertCircuit` more general so that you can:
        - choose the name and folder of the python file to generate.
        - set the number of executions to run.



3. **Decision**:

Option A: keep only the `cross_platform_testing.py` with a flag `--benchmark`.

4. **Status**: accepted

5. **Consequences**:
Implement the generalization required to support older benchmark tests:
- uniform bitstring
- NOT append
- program x vs program y